---
layout: post
title: Bird's-Eye View of Effective Weightlifting
permalink: bird
---



Good workout advice boils down to this: stop trying to find tiny cheats,
don't overcomplicate things and just lift the weight. There are really
just two things you absolutely have to focus on: volume and progressive
overload.

-   Volume is the number of sets you do for each muscle group each week
    and determines the rate at which you'll make progress. But more
    volume does not necessarily leads to more gains. There is a point
    beyond which further sets will be counterproductive. For most
    beginners around 10 sets per week and muscle group are optimal.

-   Progressive overload is a concept you need to incorporate if you
    want to continue making gains. The best way to think about
    progressive overload is in terms of intensity. And the best way to
    quantify the intensity of a set is in terms of how close you get to
    failure. If you adjust the load and number of repetitions in each
    set such that you get sufficiently close to failure, you're
    progressively overloading your muscles.

Thus in other words, if you do a sufficiently large number of intense
sets, you'll make progress.

A third thing worth focusing on is exercise form. Make sure that you do
all exercises with the full range of motion that is possible for you and
always lift the weight in a controlled way. Sure, cheating on your
exercise form will allow you to lift heavier loads. But at the same time
you're effectively sabotaging yourself since you will make less gains
with poor form.

Almost all other workout variables like frequency, exercise selection,
inter-set rest periods, or lifting tempo only have a minor, if any,
impact on your gains. Nevertheless, they can still be important if you
want to create a workout routine that fits your personal preferences.
For example, shorter inter-set rest periods lead to shorter but more
stressful workouts. Moreover, at some point it will almost unavoidable
to increase the workout frequency in order to accommodate all of the
weekly volume.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was, of course, just a quick glimpse at what lays ahead of us. In
the following chapters we will discuss all concepts introduced here (and
many others) multiple times from various perspective.

We will start by talking about a few basic principles of effective
bodybuilding and the most important workout variables. Afterwards, we'll
take a look at three sample routines before we start talking about
several more advanced aspects like nutrition, supplements, and advanced
techniques like supersets.