---
layout: post
title: Why care about weight lifting?
permalink: why-care
permalink: why-care
---




Probably you have already good reason for being interested in
weightlifting. Otherwise you wouldn't be reading this. And if I had
to guess I would say that you simply want to look better and want to get
more confident.

These are great reasons. However, your priorities in life will change
over time. Thus to stay motivated in the long run it's immensely helpful
to have a whole arsenal of arguments at your disposal. Here are some I
personally find compelling:

-   Weightlifting is good for your health ([@pmid30376511]) --- that is
    unless you take steroids ([^4]).

-   Weightlifting is a great way to learn about important developments
    long before they trickle down to the mainstream decades later. There
    are many important lessons we can learn about normal physiology by
    focusing on perfect physiology. This is analogous to how
    improvements on Formula $1$ cars eventually become standard in
    regular road cars.

-   Weightlifting allows you to understand which lifestyle factors have
    a positive or negative impact on your health. Your performance in
    the gym is a perfect benchmark for your health. For example, you'll
    quickly notice how many hours of sleep you really need since your
    performance will suffer significantly if you sleep too little.
    Similarly, you'll be able to measure how much damage alcohol does to
    your body. Even two or three days after a night of heavy drinking,
    your performance will be noticeable worse.

-   Weightlifting keeps you grounded. 100 kilograms are always 100
    kilograms irrespective of what else is going on in your live.

-   Weightlifting makes you more productive. This may sound paradoxical
    since every hour you spend in the gym is an hour you're not working
    on other projects. However, you'll quickly notice that an hour at
    the gym nets you more than an hour of productivity throughout the
    rest of your day.

-   Weightlifting is a great way to connect with others. There is
    certainly nothing wrong with lifting alone, but if you want to make
    friends you'll find that most regular gym-goers are extremely
    friendly and always happy to help a beginner. In addition, going to
    the gym together is an amazing way to deepen friendships.

-   Weightlifting teaches you many lessons that are applicable far
    beyond the realms of the gym. Most of them sound almost trivial if
    you write them down since the only way to truly grasp them is
    through experience. But once you've learned them through real-world
    experiences your worldview will be permanently altered.

The second thing we need to talk about is admittedly a bit more boring
but nevertheless important.