---
layout: post
title: The dawn of the humble age
permalink: dawn
---

Styled hair and expensively dressed, constantly jet-setting around the world while being permanently on the phone either preparing or closing the next deal. Basically, a variant of George Clooney's role in Up in the Air. That's the archetype that previous generations had in mind when they imagined a successful person. 

So it's not surprising that the first members of the "new rich" tried to emulate this kind of lifestyle. Unlike for their predecessors, their lifestyle wasn't powered by large amounts of money but by the internet and currency arbitrage.

Quickly, a new kind of idolized archetype emerged: the digital nomad. The Hilton Hotels were swapped for beach resorts, the suit for something more casual, and the phone for a MacBook. But leaving these superficial factors aside, the archetype remained unchanged and still hustled and jet-setted around the world.

The 4-hour workweek remained a myth as more and more get-rich-quick schemes turned out to be pipedreams. Hustle porn and energizing EDM music became the soundtrack of digital nomad culture.

What, however, quickly  became obvious is that this kind of lifestyle is neither sustainable nor desirable. Why exactly should the "new rich" lead a life that's characterized by either stress and loneliness? 

After all, what they lack in real wealth, they make up for in freedom. Unlike their predecessors they're not employed by some Megacorp but are doing their own thing. Only thanks to the power of mimetic forces they were still sucked into a lifestyle that many successful people in the past were forced to accept, believing that this is simply what successful people do. 

It is just now that a new archetype slowly starts to emerge. More and more members of the "new rich" are starting to realize that the worth of freedom, like money, is determined by the extent you're willing to use it. 

Is it really desirable to emulate the lifestyle of the previous generation's successful people? Rather than feeling and appearing important, wouldn't it make more sense to do meaningful things? Provided that I can do whatever I want, do I really want to move to a new country every few days? Or am I doing this, because I believe that this is what I'm supposed to be doing? After all, happiness is closely tied to deep bonds with your friends and family which this kind of lifestyle is making impossible. 

The hallmark of the new archetype is that the freedom that the internet is providing is used to live a life in accordance with ones own values. For some that means enjoying the comradery in towns like Austin, while for others it means, living in the countryside, being finally able to hear the birds chirp every morning and sleeping with open windows. 

The pace and the soundtrack have changed. Hustle porn has been replaced by challenging philosoph lecture series, EDM by melodic trance. 

While travel is always an option, it's used in careful measure and often serves a purpose like deepening existing friendships. Even for those for whom travel remains a top priority, a paradigm shift has occurred. While they used to find themselves at an airport terminal every other week, it's now only every other month. Many are setting up a home base and restrict travel to a circuit of familiar locations.

But maybe most importantly, friendships and family life are now an integral part of the archetype of a successful person. It's no longer about the lone wolf who sacrifices everything in the name of the next promotion and the prospects of making even more money. It's no longer about having hundreds of acquaintances all around the world. 

In the new dream, we live with our partner and kids in a peaceful place, in close proximity to a small group of close friends. Our lives are productive, not busy. We aren't rich, but make enough and live so frugally that we don't have to worry about money. 

Instead of a flashy and stressful life, we dream of a humble and happy life. We don't dream of mansions but of small and cozy homes. 

And the best thing about this new dream is that it's attainable for everyone.




