---
title: Only listen to people who are winning at the game you’ve decided to play
published: true
layout: post
permalink: advice
excerpt: For example, unless you’ve decided to play the tech startup game, Paul Graham's advice will most likely do more harm than good.
image: /images/default.png
---


It’s not as simple as deciding “I want to be an entrepreneur instead of getting a regular job”. 

There are a ton of subgames within the entrepreneurial or career game. 

And unless you have clarity on what game you’re playing, you won’t have a real chance at winning. You will be too distracted by the infinite options out there and never become good enough to succeed. And you will definitely be too confused by all the contradicting advice, not realizing that it’s aimed at people playing different games.

An easy example would be the wildly different skills you need as a brick-and-mortar entrepreneur versus the ones you need to succeed as the founder of an online business.

But there are also tons of less obvious distinctions. For example, there’s not really one game called the online business game. Instead, there are many related subgames.

Tech startup founders, indie hackers, niche site builders, newsletter writers, Twitter gurus, and agency owners all play very different games that only look similar at the surface level. 

This is especially important if you’re looking for advice. 

For example, unless you’ve decided to play the tech startup game, [Paul Graham’s advice](http://paulgraham.com/articles.html) will most likely do more harm than good. Similarly, whatever you might learn by studying Steve Job’s or Elon Musk’s biography will not help you make progress if you’re playing, say, the indie hacker game. 

Or right now this guy Alex Hormozi is everywhere. He’s written a book called [$100M Offers: How To Make Offers So Good People Feel Stupid Saying No](https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/58612786-100m-offers). It’s an entertaining read. But here’s the thing. Alex’ experience is limited to a very specific kind of business: niche e-learning businesses. You know, the ones with sketchy-looking landing pages that push visitors to sign up for a webinar, where users are persuaded to buy an overpriced course. 

So unless you’ve decided to play the niche e-learning business game, Alex’ advice is completely useless or even harmful. But people don’t realize this and act is if there were such a thing as general entrepreneurship advice. 

This is like saying there is such a thing as general sports advice. 

Yes, there might be some overlap and there are definitely meta skills that are important for many different games. 

But if you want to become, say, a professional soccer player, you should get advice from professional soccer players and not from chess or basketball players. Exactly the same thing is true for different entrepreneurial games.

The message to take away is almost too trivial to write it down: Only learn from people who have done what you want to do.  Unless someone is winning at the game you’ve decided to play, you should ignore their advice.