---
title: Share your secrets
published: true
layout: post
permalink: secrets
excerpt: This is how I know that readers will find this text valuable, that this content will resonate with people and it is worth my time writing it.  
image: /images/default.png
---

In the past few months, I’ve written multiple pieces of content that went viral and were read by hundreds of thousands of people.

And I’m not talking about clickbait nonsense. 

My content is long-form and requires far more concentration than your average bite-sized listicle. But most importantly, people reach out to me regularly to discuss my ideas. This only happens if your content has substance. 

Hence the large number of messages by interesting people I’m getting is my real measure of success.

I’m confident that I’ve figured it out and can create this kind of quality content again and again.

Wanna know my secret?

Usually when people write this, there is no real secret. Work hard, small wins compound, stay consistent... you know the drill.

But not this time. There is in fact one simple trick that allows me to consistently create content that resonates.

Without further ado, here it comes: share your secrets. 

Okay I know I kind of spoiled the surprise by making this also the headline. But anyway, let me explain. 

All of my most popular pieces of content have one thing in common: I was scared to publish them.

There is almost a perfect correlation between my level of fear before a post goes live and how much it resonates with readers. 

Moreover, it’s definitely not just me. Study the content of your favorite writers and you will quickly recognize the exact same pattern. 

And it makes sense if you think about it. When you’re scared, it means the content resonates with you personally at some level. Hence chances are high that it will also spark something in people reading it.

Usually, when I’m afraid to publish something, it’s because I’m revealing something typically kept secret.

This could either be an opinion like “[Build a business, not an audience](https://jakobgreenfeld.com/build_an_audience)”, a self-reflecting confession like “[I need to stop sabotaging myself](https://jakobgreenfeld.com/self-sabotage)” or something tactical like “[The simple system I’m using to stay in touch with hundreds of people](https://jakobgreenfeld.com/stay-in-touch)”.

Readers really appreciate it when you say what thousands of people themselves secretly agree with but never had the courage to say.

Readers love getting a peek into a world normally hidden. The world can either be external like in an inside-view of what’s going on in a company, subculture, or team. But it can also be internal worlds like when you’re sharing your thoughts, fears, and doubts. 

And readers definitely value when you teach everything you know. 

This is now the guiding compass I use to pick topics to write about. 

I freely share my secrets. That’s my secret.

I will even go as far as saying that if you’re not going to share any secrets, don’t bother creating content in the first place.

The internet is already full of pointless content that was only published since everyone is [talking about](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cubPiuD7_dA) the importance of churning out content. I’m pretty sure you have better stuff to do than creating content no one cares about.

Now you probably already noticed what I did here.

What you just read is actually an example of the type of content I’m talking about. 

I just shared one of my most valuable secrets. And of course, I’m scared to publish it. 

What if everyone now starts doing it? What if people now look at my content differently knowing that I’m consciously using this strategy?

I know that these concerns are largely unfounded. But they feel very real right now.

And this is how I know that readers will find this text valuable, that this content will resonate with people and it is worth my time writing it. 

Now go and share some secrets yourself.