---
title: Focus
published: true
layout: post-no-footer
permalink: focus
excerpt: It’s painfully obvious if you take a step back.
image: /images/default.png
---

I haven’t made much progress recently. 

My biggest mistake? 

I’ve diluted my focus. 

It’s painfully obvious if you take a step back.

Why the f*ck do I write 3 newsletters?

This makes everything unnecessarily hard.

Quality suffers. 

It’s confusing.

*“You should read Jakob’s newsletter!” “Which one?”*

There’s less buzz, less domain authority, less organic traffic. 

Instead of building three lists from zero to 5000 subscribers, I could’ve built one list to 50,000 subscribers with the same amount of effort. 

There’s a threshold when a project becomes *a thing*. 

People can feel the buzz. The name keeps popping up everywhere.

Google starts considering it a trustworthy resource.

Getting there is so much harder if you’re not focusing your energy.

Whenever I was doing a marketing experiment, I had to make a decision: do I want to direct people here or there? This costs unnecessary mental energy. 

Sometimes I couldn’t make a decision and ended up doing nothing instead.

I never got clean data on what’s working

I wasn’t able to optimize.

Three sites with a domain authority of 15 are simply not getting the same traffic as one page with a domain authority of 45, even if they contain exactly the same content. 

So yes, I’m going to focus from now on. 

I will write just one newsletter every week. 

It will be exactly the newsletter I’d love to read myself. 

It’s going to be awesome.

Join here:

<iframe src="https://embeds.beehiiv.com/721b7323-23a6-4e64-ad95-364036af2b0b" data-test-id="beehiiv-embed" width="100%" height="320" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" style="border-radius: 4px; border: 2px solid #e5e7eb; margin: 0; background-color: transparent;"></iframe>
