---
title: Run more. Seriously.
published: true
layout: post
permalink: run
excerpt:  Don't let silly excuses get in the way of your wellbeing.
image: /images/default.png
categories: entrepreneurship, inner-game
---

I've recently [started running every other day](/ask-ab).

Nothing crazy.

Just a 20 minute session on the treadmill in the gym at a tempo that leaves me sweating heavily at the end.

But the impact this tiny change has on my wellbeing is nothing short but insane.

It feels like my brain upgraded from GPT-4 to GPT-5 and someone installed a brand new battery pack.

I have zero drops in energy during the day and my baseline feels at least 2x higher.

The quality and clarity of my thoughts is way up.

I wake up feeling fantastic every morning.

Previously I would dread my gym sessions. They always left me feeling exhausted.

Now I love them. Lifting heavy stuff is fun again.

I end up doing unplanned sets and exercises every single time. My PRs keep going up.

Nothing else about my lifestyle and diet has changed. 

All of these positive changes are 100% attributable to the fact that I'm running regularly again.

And like I said, it's not some crazy time committment. 

A quick 20 minute run every other morning seems perfectly sufficient.

These 20 minutes easily net me more than an hour of productivity throughout the rest of my day.

I've of course known for a long time that cardio workouts are healthy, essential if you want to live a long life, yada yada.

But I also had every excuse in the world not to run.

Ankle pain made it impossible to run. The weather here in Denmark means I cannot run outside but running on a treadmill is incredibly dumb.

At least that's what I was telling myself.

Turns out the only truly dumb thing is deciding not to do regular cardio.

No, it [won't kill your gains](https://www.jamesstuber.com/booknotes/tactical-barbell-ii/).

Yes, it will make your life significantly better.

Don't let silly excuses get in the way of your wellbeing.